# CS-305

1. Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and its software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did the company want you to address?

   Artemis Financial helps develop financial plans for its clients. This includes savings, retirement, investment, and insurance plans. Artemis Financial would like to continue using the its current web based application but would like to mordernize it. The companys mottos is "Security is Everyones Responsibility." The software engineers code of ethics primarily ensures the safety of the public interest. This falls right in line with the companies motto of "security being everyones responsibility." It can be assumed that the company will be responsible for domestic and non-domestic accounts. The company also deals with investments directly which means they would have to be very careful to ensure the safety of trade secrets. They are also working with client information that is extremely sensitive like credit and debit card numbers, account and routing numbers, social security, addresses, phone number, etc. HDealing with such senstitive information means that Artemis Finanacial will need to utilize API's, user input validation, continuous integration, and DevSecOps to name a few, in order to keep the upmost secure information private for all of its clients.


2. What did you do well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall well-being?

   When I found my clients software security vulnerablities I was able to check them with the NSR database and see if their were any false positives first and foremost. If there were no false positives I was able to research the vulnerabilies in order to figure out what needed to be fixed. For a large majority of the vulnerabilities it was a simple case of needed to update to the current version of the vulnerability. Secure code is perhaps the most important aspect of software development. There are so many ways for an intruder to attack and retrieve software, potentially jeopardizing the interest of the public we must be diligent in our best when creating the most secure code possible. If I were to create a program that worked flawlessly but was attacked many times, it would look bad on the company and myself as I would have jeopardized the safety of the public interest. Software security adds trust between the development team, the company, and the users. When security is breached or an attack leaks thousands or millions of users information the company can suffer to an extent that loses trust in the public and puts them out of business. Resources will have to be routed to correcting mistakes, legal fees, the development team, testing, and ensuring that if the compant recovers that it mitigates that risk ever happening again.

   
3. Which part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?

   The hardest part of the vulnerability assesment was providing the verification of a working checksum. I struggled with this portion of the assesment as I was not able to figure out how to properly execute the RESTful api brower to verify that the checksum was working. I spent days utilizing resources such as SNHU library, youtube, stackoverflow, class resources, and nothing helped to where I was able to complete the verification process. It turned out that once I reached out for help I was running the program as a Maven instead of a JAVA application. However, even after running the application under JAVA my checksum failed to work. There were springboot framework errors that I was coming across that no matter how much I researched, I was unable to figure out a solution to my issue. On the other hand, the class module resources and my professor helped me in developing my skills thus far. Before starting this class I had very little knowledge when it came to secure software development and now I feel as though I have a much better grasp on the subject and how to go forth looking and working with it.


4. How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?

   Following the Vulnerability Assessment Process Flow Diagram I was able to add layers of security or potentially utilize the types of security that are in the diagram. I was able to employ API's, cryptography, code error, and code quality in order to add increased layers of security for this project. In the future, I would use the dependency check report, the most updated version in order to check for any vulnerabilities in the code. Then I would reach each dependency and check it on the NSR in order to gain an understanding of what it is and what I would need to fix in order to fix the vulnerability. This would help ensure that the code is at its most secure.

   
8. How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?

   To ensure that the code was secure we created a checksum verification in order to open over a secure HTTPS RESTful server. I also implemented code quality in order to prevent code error. This included organized and readable code with regular comments in order to make the code easy to read. I also tested the code intermitently in order to ensure that the code I was writing was in good working order. However, I did have issues when it came to successfully testing the java application. I unfortunately recieved errors and after all utilizing resources to try and correct the error I was unable to. I was able to check to see if any new vulnerabilities were introduced through a maven dependency check and its report. I was able to open the vulnerability report and see what vulnerabilities were present, cross referenced them in the NSR database and then corrected.

10. What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?

    There were many resources utilized throughout the duration of this project. I was able to use SNHUs articles and library in order to find helpful information about software security. As for the code itself I was able to reference the materials in the module section of the course which had real time coding examples and information on why and how to use. Whenever I came across any issues with the code I found google, stackoverflow, and youtube to be the most dependable options. I was able to find a lot of good information on how to correct a good many of the errors that I found whilst testing the code. The tools I used throughout the project were continuous intermitent testing and dependency checks. The dependency check report was extremely useful in ensuring that my code was as secure as possible. I consistently kept up my code quality to decrease any code error which created for organized, readable, and correct code. Utilizing these resources, tools, and coding practices will be helpful in any future assignments and jobs in order to grow and develop skills that I need to improve on.
    
12. Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?

    I would show possible future employers both of the projects that I have uploaded to github. Both of the vulnerability assessment reports show great development of coding skills and quality, testing development and quality, but also shows that I understand why and how we do these things by the written analysis throughout each project. I was unable to complete one part of project 2 which was the checksum verification, that does not show failure in my development in coding and analysis. I used as many resources I could including SNHU resource, youtube, and google and was still unable to find a definitive answer as to why my test was failiing. However, this just shows the dedication to learning, and shows that no matter who you are there will be things that we are always able to practice and improve on.
